docs/2-launch-a-new-cluster.md, before:

# Launch a new HTCondor Cluster

You can launch the HTCondor Cluster resources in your AWS account by creating an
AWS CloudFormation stack from either the
[htcondor-centos-7.yml](../htcondor-centos7/cloudformation/htcondor-centos-7.yml)
or
[htcondor-amazon-linux-2.yml](../htcondor-al2/cloudformation/htcondor-amazon-linux-2.yml)
file, depending on your desired base OS.

## 1. Launch the CloudFormation Stack

1. In your AWS account, navigate to the CloudFormation console
1. Select `Create stack` > `With new resources (standard)`
1. Select `Template is ready` (selected by default)
1. Select Template source: `Upload a template file`
1. Select `Choose file` and select the file path to the CloudFormation template
   with the desired OS on your local machine
1. Enter a name for the CloudFormation stack
1. Enter values for the Parameters (see the [Parameter
   Descriptions](./3-parameter-descriptions.md) for more)
1. Enter values for all other desired settings, and select `Submit`
1. Once the CloudFormation stack has reached the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status, you
   can connect to your cluster

## 2. Connect to the Cluster

Instructions for connecting to your HTCondor Cluster can be found in the
[Connect to a Cluster](./5-connect-to-a-cluster.md) document.

Commit message:

docs: remove centos7 and al2 specifics

docs/2-launch-a-new-cluster.md, after:

# Launch a new HTCondor Cluster

You can launch the HTCondor Cluster resources in your AWS account by creating an
AWS CloudFormation stack from the [htcondor-al2023.yml](../htcondor-al2023/cloudformation/htcondor-al2023.yml)
template file.

## 1. Launch the CloudFormation Stack

1. Clone this repository to your local machine
1. In your AWS account, navigate to the CloudFormation console
1. Select `Create stack` > `With new resources (standard)`
1. Select `Template is ready` (selected by default)
1. Select Template source: `Upload a template file`
1. Select `Choose file` and select the file path to the CloudFormation template
   with the desired OS on your local machine
1. Enter a name for the CloudFormation stack
1. Enter values for the Parameters (see the [Parameter
   Descriptions](./3-parameter-descriptions.md) for more)
1. Enter values for all other desired settings, and select `Submit`
1. Once the CloudFormation stack has reached the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status, you
   can connect to your cluster

## 2. Connect to the Cluster

Instructions for connecting to your HTCondor Cluster can be found in the
[Connect to a Cluster](./5-connect-to-a-cluster.md) document.
